>> Steve Kinney: Because we've got
the server open just through sheer luck.
We talked a lot about the problems
on the client side and
the fact that you don't know what
the API was truly giving you.
So let's be fair, and let's talk
about what we get out of the box,
cuz we have the same problem here as well.
And so for instance, in an Express app,
you've got a request and
a response, a request has,
it could have a body.
>> Steve Kinney: Say body equals rec.body,
a request could have params,
which is if we look kind of
like at the get anything that
can be put in the path,
that can be on there as well.
And then a request can have a query which
is any kind of query string that is in
there as well and then there is kind of,
which we'll see when we look at the types,
a little bit,
something kind of called locals,
which is just other stuff that
you jammed onto the request.
What is other stuff grabbing, like an auth
token that was on the header right?
That could be an example, lots of other
things that you could choose to as you
kind of like as it goes through middleware
that you wanna pass on there and
do stuff with can be on there.
The important part here though,
is like it's kind of a wild west, right?
You literally can just jam
stuff onto the request or
response objects as we go through so,
it's really hard to tell and
so you end up with a lot of
kind of interesting types.
For instance, body, by default, is any,
which is a version of the problem like,
it's effectively what the body is
of a fetch request when we get
the response on the client, right?
So the problems exist in both places,
params is allegedly
like a key value store of strings
as both the keys and the values.
Obviously, this one, it's not much of
anything, because there's no params on it.
Query looks to be this very special type,
it's just another object where,
if we grabbed so we said some like
even this, like completed, which is,
if we wanted to filter just
the completed tasks and
see those independent
of the incomplete ones.
You can see added by default,
it is maybe a string,
maybe this parsed queues,
maybe an array of strings,
maybe undefined, so not any.
Insofar as a string,
or an array of strings,
or an object of strings, or undefined.
So not any, but
close enough to any to be problematic,
right, so we have a bunch of
versions of these as a thing, right?
And if we look at the implied
types of request and
response, you'll notice two things, one,
they stress me out, right?
There's four, five generics in there,
right, of things that it could be,
I don't make the rules I get it,
it's frustrating.
We will navigate it, and we'll see how the
tooling will help us but the first little
part of, it becomes a fine art of
remembering what all of these are.
So there's a few things that we can
do obviously, if your brain is going,
I can validate them with Zod, 100%,
you're right, you can, and we will.
But let's talk about some of the patterns
without Zod just to catch everyone up, and
then we will go and do some schema
validation on both the server and
the client as well.
So out of the box, effectively,
what you're getting is and just to make
matters worse, this is a type request
>> Steve Kinney: But
the important part is,
it is not the type like that in the Dom
cuz express predates,
a lot of these other things.
There is a request and a type response
from express that are different
than the built in, Dom request and
response web APIs.
So we can say this is a request and
this is a response, right now, that
is what you get for free by it being the
callback for a get or a post or whatever.
So, you're not getting too much out of
there, but you can kind of see that
this is the default type in this case,
which, yeah, it's stressful.
So one of the things you can do, I'm gonna
kind of pull up an example real quick is,
so that's the type in a nicer format,
which is nice to see.
You can do something, for instance,
with our task where you can define
what should be on the params and
what type it should be, just like you
would do with the fetch request, right?
You can then say that,
okay, cool, it's a request,
the params user Id is gonna be a string,
and now you will get the auto complete.
You will get the IntelliSense
knowing it's a string,
what's the problem with this approach?
You're in the same place you were
with a Fetch Request where TypeScript
will believe you, and
you can hope that you're right, right?
And when you are right,
life is good, right?
But we're not talking
about when life is good,
we're talking about the unhappy path here.
So you can do stuff like that as well and
again,
there's a lot of trust involved in there.
So if we look at ID,
that one is maybe a string, right?
I think pretty sure,
let's see if the typing goes.
>> Steve Kinney: It does have it for
the type, but for anything like the prams,
or like the body, we go down to this post,
this is any, right?
And so we can begin to flush
it out a little bit, right?
And so if we look at that type that I
had up here before, you can see cool,
we start out the dictionary, then we get
to the response body, why that one first?
I don't make the rules,
I have no idea, right?
I think it's so you can validate that
you're responding with the right stuff.
And then the request body,
then the query params, and
then the other stuff that you
can jam on to the objects.
So in this case if we wanted to kind
of make this type a little bit better,
we could do something like, so
if I wanted the body to exist.
Once again, I'm going to now have
to remember which order it was in,
it was third, right?
Pretty sure it was third,
we could say type,
create, task, request, love it,
naming things is the hardest part here.
Where we could say that, sure,
but actually that's just the body.
So we can take that and
we can say that a type create task,
request, equals request.
The first part, yeah,
just could be an empty object,
cuz there are no path parameters, see,
I already am forgetting what it is.
The response, in this case it should
actually be void I believe, and linting
is very angry with me because it's like
you shouldn't be doing that, like I know.
And so now we can say that a request
is this create task request,
right, it does respond with a message.
So then the response is message string,
yeah, and so
you can see now the task is this,
create task body, and
it's all typed correctly.
The response was validated because, like
that one, at least we have control of, we
might not know what we're receiving thing,
but we do know what we're responding with.
If there were query params, though,
we'd still be out of luck, and
we'd have to type those.
And I'm not doing this because it doesn't
actually solve the core thesis of
this workshop.
Which is, I can type whatever I want here,
and IntelliSense will be happy but
like if garbage comes in
who knows what happens.
And so we need ways to better,
actually figure out our things the way
that we think that they are, right?
And so what we might choose to do is
try to start by looking at our app,
figuring out where the like
implicit ennies are.
And then start to come up with ways to
make sure that they are what we think they
are, which is good again, we're gonna do
this with some schema validation, right?
Say, hey, when this thing comes in, let's
make sure it is the thing we think it is,
cuz if not,
we think about errors as a bad thing.
If you throw the error on purpose, because
things are broken, that's not bad, right?
That is the intended purpose in this case.